well howdy there Internet people its Bo
again so this is gonna be another one of
those videos in the series about history
that you should know but you might not
this is something that gets debated
pretty often and it's funny because
there's there's no debate on this well
the historical evidence is is pretty
heavy there's a metric ton of historical
documentation deciding this little
debate it's funny because it is
historians who are to blame for this
debate historians tend to assume that
Americans know American history it's not
really the case most Americans know
American mythology the two aren't always
the same so when a historian gets a hot
take gets a piece of information they
think will spark interest in history
they put it out there and they don't
always put it in context and that's kind
of what happened here the theory that
got advanced was that well the
Emancipation Proclamation wasn't really
about ending slavery and that's true
that that's that there there's a lot of
truth in that statement and in fact it
in the u.s. slavery still isn't
abolished not really but that's a topic
for another video the Emancipation
Proclamation freed slaves within a
defined geographic area the areas that
we're still rebelling that's it
that's what it did and there is the
theory one that I personally believe
that there was a political maneuver
going on at that time because a lot of
Europe was considering entering the war
on the side of the south however once
freeing the slaves became an explicit
goal of the Union you know they're
openly saying we're going to do this
well Europe didn't want to get involved
anymore because nobody wants to be on
that side of history you know so this
idea that the Emancipation Proclamation
wasn't really about ending slavery gave
rise to the idea that Lincoln didn't
start the war to end slavery therefore
the American Civil War was not about
slavery you're asking the wrong person
Lincoln's view of why the war happened
or didn't happen his motivations are
irrelevant the South's are why did the
South secede why did the South Carolina
militia open up on Fort Sumter the
Confederate Army didn't exist yet that
those are the real questions and we have
answers to them because the Confederate
leaders believed they were founding a
new country it was going to last a long
time therefore there are founding
documents many states issued statements
of reasons and in those statements of
reasons many of them included the word
slavery most times in the first
paragraph Texas went all in on it
not just was it important economically
God wanted it that way
Mississippi said that because it was so
hot they had to have black people with
slaves because nobody else could handle
it I am not joking they put that in what
was supposed to be the founding
documents of a country a lot of other
states did some were a little more
cryptic about it but not much you know
Georgia talked about how criminals
weren't being returned to them from the
northern states criminals being runaway
slaves when they talked about the other
states that they were forming
Confederacy with they said other slave
holding States because slavery was the
thing uniting them that's what it was
all about there's no denying this that's
why it happened
and if that doesn't do it for you we
also have the statement from the vice
president of the Confederacy he talked
about how the original founding fathers
of the u.s. they believed that slavery
would just go away on its own eventually
and they're probably right I mean on a
long enough timeline machinery would
have been more cost-effective so I mean
yeah there's probably some truth to what
they believed but that's not what
happened
he said those ideas however were
fundamentally wrong they rested upon the
assumption of the Equality of the races
this was an error it was a sandy sandy
foundation and the idea of a government
built upon it when the storm came in the
wind blew it fell our new government is
founded upon exactly the opposite ideas
its foundations are laid its cornerstone
rests upon the great truth that the
black man is not equal to the white man
that slavery subordination to the
superior race is his natural and normal
condition he did not say black manliness
he used a different word that seems
pretty clear the cornerstone of the
Confederacy the reason they did this the
immediate cause was slavery the Civil
War was about slavery you can't argue
this the Confederate side their
documents say it was about slavery
people like to hold on to this because
they like the mythology of the War of
Northern Aggression and all of that and
even now I'm sure somebody is typing out
that well you know they told the people
at Fort Sumter to leave they they didn't
want there to be any you know fighting
of course not they just they would
prefer to keep their slaves without
fighting
I find it hard to believe that the
people who support the idea that this
wasn't over slavery I find it hard to
believe they would justify the US
military abandoning a post today I think
they're calling for troops to be sent in
to Seattle over a few square blocks and
we're supposed to believe that they
would be okay with half the country
leaving being occupied no is buying that
the Civil War was about slavery it was
inherently racist it is what it is it's
historical facts coming from the
Confederate side you don't have to look
to the Union you don't have to get the
northern side of it
the Confederates admit that's what it
was about so Lincoln's little political
maneuvering doesn't really matter it's
not really that important you're trying
to expand that little piece of
information just a wee bit too far
anyway it's just a thought y'all have a
good night